---
layout: post
title: Compostable Packaging Pilot
date: 2021-05-15 12:00:00
featured_image:
buttons:
assets:
tags:
published: false
---
<div class="editable"><p>Plastic. It&rsquo;s everywhere. From the food we eat to the clothes we wear, from our toothbrushes to our trash cans, almost all of us use plastics countless times per day. While we at 4P Foods, and many of our members, want to use less of it, there are many barriers to doing so, including the price, effectiveness, and availability of alternatives. Our reusable Produce, Meat, and Dairy Bags that we collect from members each week go a long way in reducing our use of single-use packaging, but we are excited to announce that we are taking another small step in the direction of less reliance on plastics by piloting compostable portioning bags.</p><h2>Committed to Taking Action: The &ldquo;No Plastics Task Force&rdquo;</h2><p>A few months ago, 4P&rsquo;s Head Member Experience Wizard (MEW), Bonnie, after hearing from several customers that they wanted to see fewer plastic bags in their 4P Bags, decided she was determined to take action. She gathered teammates spanning procurement, operations, logistics, and marketing to figure out where we can make progress toward reducing our plastic use. The group informally calls themselves the &ldquo;No Plastics Task Force,&rdquo; though they are looking for a better name (suggestions welcome!) and planning to tackle other sustainability issues in the future.&nbsp;</p><p>They started with the item that caused those members&nbsp; to reach out: the green plastic bags we use to portion our fruits and veggies. The Task Force ordered samples of a handful of compostable bags and experimented with storing veggies in them for 7-10 days, tracking the quality throughout. They picked a winner and ordered a larger batch of bags, which you can expect to see in your 4P Bags in the coming weeks. The Task Force will gather feedback from both members&nbsp; and the pack team to decide if these bags are a good fit to continue using.</p><h2>Why is Packaging Such a Tough Nut to Crack?</h2><p>Plastics are particularly pervasive in the food industry, especially in packaging (for more on the history of food packaging, check out <a href="https://americanhistory.si.edu/blog/2011/10/food-culture.html">this article</a> from the National Museum of American History). Single-use plastics like bags or clamshells are a cheap and effective way to portion and protect food after harvest, in storage, and during delivery, and they help to maintain moisture and freshness. Most of the plastics 4P uses in its warehouse on a day-to-day basis are not single-use, but rather durable goods like the totes that farmers deliver product in and that we use to organize our coolers.&nbsp;</p><p>With the diverse types and uses of plastics in mind, the task of the No Plastics Task Force is to imagine: how can we reduce&mdash;and someday, even eliminate&mdash;plastic usage at 4P Foods? How could we receive and transport food with less or no plastic? How could we portion and pack it? It&rsquo;s a tall order that will take lots of creativity and dedication, not to mention innovations in the packaging industry that make plastic alternatives effective and cost-competitive. &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><h2>We Need Your Help</h2><p>Did you know that compostable bags won&rsquo;t turn into compost in a landfill? Landfills don&rsquo;t provide the aerobic conditions needed for organic materials to break down into compost, but instead result in anaerobic decomposition that leads to greenhouse gas emissions. Learn more about compost in <a href="https://www.nrdc.org/stories/composting-101">this backgrounder</a> from NRDC.&nbsp;</p><p>So, while compostable bags are at least made from renewable resources rather than crude oil or natural gas, their full benefit is realized when they are composted rather than landfilled. Our new bags are compostable in commercial facilities, but unfortunately not in your home compost pile. If you don&rsquo;t have access to a compost service near you, you can return the empty compostable bags to us in your return 4P Bags (along with the usual return items: cardboard boxes, ice packs, liners, and insulated envelopes), and we&rsquo;ll bring them to our composting partner for processing.&nbsp;</p><h2>Learn More: Additional Resources</h2></div>
