---
layout: post
title: 5 Reasons Why KellyBronze Turkeys  Are Better For Thanksgiving
date: 2024-10-04 00:00:00
author: 4P Foods
excerpt: >-
  A delicious KellyBronze turkey cooks in half the time of an average turkey and
  is twice as tasty.
featured_image: /img/uploads/posts/4pfoods-blog-images-1900x1000-8.jpg
buttons:
  - label: PREORDER NOW
    link: https://shop.4pfoods.com/thanksgiving-turkeys
assets:
tags:
  - Thanksgiving
published: true
---
<div class="editable"><p>The Guardian called it "the Rolls Royce of turkeys" and Chef Jamie Oliver says "KellyBronze turkeys are the best of the best, the most joyful treat." Not enough to convince you to upgrade your Thanksgiving?&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>Here are five more reasons you should pre-order these delicious turkeys for your Thanksgiving feast.</p><h3><strong>1. The best turkeys for more than 40 years.</strong></h3><p>The Kelly family has lovingly raised turkeys since 1971 when the founders Derek and Molly Kelly decided to start producing top quality turkeys in Danbury, England.</p><p>In 1983 Derek Kelly traveled the UK collecting the last remaining flocks of pure bronze turkeys from Scotland, Wales, and England. This was the start of Kelly Bronze!&nbsp;</p><p>Derek and Molly’s son, Paul, started work on the farm in 1984. Over the years, he wanted to start the unique artisan method of turkey farming in the U.S. In 2012, Paul found the right U.S. partner, Judd Culver. Judd and his family started raising high-quality, artisanal KellyBronze turkeys on Heritage Glen Farm in Crozet, Va.</p><h3><strong>2. Pasture-raised in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains.&nbsp;</strong></h3><p>The Culver family farm is perfect for raising turkeys. Heritage Glen Farm in Crozet, Va. has sixteen acres of flat pasture and trees in the front of the farm to raise the young turkeys in the late spring and early summer. Then, they can then be moved onto fresh ground further up the mountain in late summer when they are older. The turkeys stay on the mountain until they are walked to the processing unit at the beginning of November. This time frame allows for natural maturation and slow growth.</p><h3><strong>3.&nbsp; Raised to full maturity as nature intended.</strong></h3><p>KellyBronze turkeys are twice the age of a conventionally-raised turkey at harvest. By allowing the turkeys to mature as nature intended, they develop a beautifully marbled layer of natural fat and mature carcass and bone. These are all essential ingredients for the award-winning flavor.</p><h3><strong>4. Plucked by hand and dry-aged to produce tender and flavorful meat.</strong></h3><p>The turkeys are hand-plucked on the farm when they are mature and ready to eat. Little black feather quills can be seen in the skin, so you know that is an authentic KellyBronze turkey. After the turkeys are hand-plucked, they are dry-aged as tradition dictates to intensify the flavor and tenderize the meat. Both of these methods are labor intensive and time consuming, but they give that award-winning flavor that will upgrade your Thanksgiving meal.</p><h3><strong>5. KellyBronze turkeys cook twice as fast as a regular turkey!</strong></h3><p>Your eyes do not deceive you! KellyBronze turkeys cook in half the time of the average Thanksgiving turkey that you would buy in the grocery store. Your turkey comes with a complimentary meat thermometer and special <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://www.kellybronze.co.uk/how-to-cook-a-kelly-bronze-turkey">cooking instructions</a>, so you can get the most out of your KellyBronze turkey. Plus, this means less time in the kitchen and more time to spend with your loved ones.</p><p>We are so excited to offer you a high-quality, pasture-raised heritage breed turkey that will upgrade your Thanksgiving. Preorders are required for these special birds. <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/thanksgiving-turkeys">Preorder today!</a></p><p>&nbsp;</p></div>