---
layout: post
title: Eastern Food Hub Collaborative
date: 2020-03-31 00:00:00
featured_image: >-
  /img/uploads/posts/2020-07-17-wv-berkleysprings-mocksgreenhousefarm-herd-ventures.jpg
assets:
tags:
---

<div class="editable"><h1><strong><em>Eastern Food Hub Collaborative</em></strong></h1><h2><em>Building A Regional Food System</em></h2><h4>&nbsp;</h4><h3><strong><em>Summary</em></strong></h3><p>In early February 2020, the group of 10 food hubs* and 4 supporting service organizations&ndash; for-profit and non-profit, urbanand rural&ndash; represents nearly $27M in yearly sales of local food from almost 600 independently-owned farms and producers spanning from New England to the Carolinas gathered to discuss opportunities for hub-to-hub trading and cooperation. The result was the Eastern Food Hub Collaborative (EFC), an exciting new network of food hubs that 4P Foods is proud to be a part of. EFC collectively represents nearly $27M in yearly sales of local food from almost 600 independently-owned farms and producers.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>The network&rsquo;s mission is to create opportunities for farmers and equitable access to good food by leveraging food hub collaboration, best practices, financially sustainable transactions, and transparency. </strong>EFC members believe that when food hubs work together to increase grower relationships and market access, the result is a more robust, resilient regional food system that places trusted farms at its center and provides opportunities for consumers to access healthy, delicious food.&nbsp;</p><p>EFC seeks to increase purchasing transactions between food hubs, develop more efficient logistics and systems, and share best practices. The key principle of this trading network is transparency, with each hub knowing that their farms will be represented from field to fork. This will result in increased sales and opportunities for all small farmers, and helps food hubs diversify their product offerings and extend their seasons. &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>*The US Department of Agriculture defines the term "food hub" (also referred to as "hub") as a centrally located facility with a business management structure facilitating the aggregation, storage, processing, distribution, and/or marketing of locally/regionally produced food products.&nbsp;</p></blockquote><h3><strong><em>Background</em></strong></h3><p>There are numerous food hubs in the Eastern US. As with food hubs nationwide, their business models vary, but they share the common objective of aggregating and distributing local food in support of better farming and more resilient food systems.&nbsp;</p><p>Despite considerable progress in the local food economy, however, small farms and food hubs continue to be challenged by the consolidation of supply chains, a more competitive marketplace, federal regulations, and a changing climate. By working together and increasing their transactions, the EFC believes they can get to a scale, efficiency, and diversity of products that works for farmers and preserves the values at the heart of a sustainable food system.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>Under this collaborative model, northern hubs can, for example, buy strawberries from South Carolina before the season starts in the north; hubs in the Carolinas can buy apples that don&rsquo;t grow in their region. The result: Farmers in both places benefit from enhanced sales and a stronger customer base. Efficiency is enhanced by full trucks moving up and down the coast, as well as by sharing systems and, potentially, back-office resources.</p><p>EFC is led by <a href="https://www.localfoodhub.org/">Local Food Hub</a>, an 11-year-old hub with experience in aggregation, distribution, and programming for farmers and food access, along with a team of advisors with significant&nbsp; experience in food systems, data collection and analysis, strategic planning, and program management and evaluation.</p><h3><strong><em>Founding Members</em></strong></h3><p><em>Crown of Maine Cooperative, Maine&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>Farm Fresh Rhode Island, Rhode Island&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>Firsthand Foods, North Carolina&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>Food Connects, Vermont</em></p><p><em>Grow Food Carolina, South Carolina&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>Local Environmental Agriculture Project, Virginia&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>Local Food Hub, Virginia</em></p><p><em>Turnrow, West Virginia&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>4P Foods, Virginia&nbsp;</em></p><h3><strong><em>How to Join</em></strong></h3><p>All food hubs that are located in the Eastern US and are actively aggregating and selling products from independently-owned farms in their region are welcome to be considered for inclusion in EFC. All members must agree to the terms of the network&rsquo;s Memorandum of Understanding, which will be provided upon request. Contact laura@localfoodhub.org for more information. This article was written by and posted with the permission of Local Food Hub.</p><h3><strong>Further Reading</strong></h3><p><a href="https://staging.4pfoods.com/posts/mid-atlantic-food-port-feasibility-study/">Mid-Atlantic Food Port Feasibility Study</a> published by Food Works Group and 4P Foods in 2019.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></div>