---
layout: post
title: Recipe Corner
date: 2021-01-21 16:52:00
featured_image: /img/uploads/posts/2021-01-09-recipeslukebeefx1200.jpg
assets:
tags:
published: true
---

<div class="editable"><p>Seeking cooking inspiration for the fresh ingredients in your 4P delivery? We've got you covered. Browse our collection of recipes from the 4P community, which features submissions from our staff, members, and other guest chefs.</p><p>Read our handy&nbsp;<a href="https://4pfoods.com/referral-programs/">storage tips</a><a href="__notset__">&nbsp;guide</a>&nbsp;for ways to prolong the shelf-life of fresh fruits and veggies from our farmers. If you&rsquo;re looking for more specific recipes, like a special way to use up a bunch of collards or cooking applications for bison, visit our <a href="https://www.pinterest.com/4pfoods/">Recipe Board</a> on Pinterest where every recipe collection is organized by ingredient. Not on Pinterest?&nbsp;<a href="mailto:community@4pfoods.com">Email us</a> for access to 4P's guest account.</p><p>New recipes are added each month, so check back for new content through the seasons!</p><hr /><h2><strong>Marinated Mushrooms</strong></h2><div><em>By Kai, 4P Foodies Recipe Contest Winner</em></div><div>&nbsp;</div><div>In November, we kicked off the first 4P Foodies Recipe Contest and asked members to submit their favorite fall dish. Choosing between comfort foods and warm Thanksgiving side dishes was as fun as it was difficult. &nbsp;Our team voted and&nbsp;<em>Marinated Mushrooms </em>by 4P member, Kai won for their tasty way to preserve the flavors of fresh mushrooms found in your 4P bags. "My favorite as a child when my mother made this for parties and Thanksgiving," says Kai about the recipe.</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;</div><h3><strong>Ingredients</strong></h3><div>8 oz. fresh mushrooms</div><div>1/2 c - 1 c. liquid/brine from olives (or, capers)&nbsp;</div><div>1/2 c.&nbsp; tarragon vinegar</div><div>1/2 c.&nbsp; dark brown sugar</div><div>1&nbsp; bay leaf</div><div>1&nbsp; clove garlic, sliced</div><div>&nbsp;</div><h3><strong>Directions</strong></h3><ul><li><div>Cut mushrooms into chunks. Saut&eacute; with 1 - 2 tbsp. olive oil.&nbsp;</div></li><li><div>Measure about 1/2 c. liquid from a jar of olives (or other briny product), add water to make 1 cup.</div></li><li><div>Add vinegar, sugar, and bay leaf.&nbsp;</div></li><li><div>Boil, then pour over mushrooms.</div></li><li><div>Cover tightly and refrigerate for at least 24 hours.</div></li><li><div>After enjoying the mushrooms, use the marinade for something else (e.g., to saut&eacute; greens, for a salad dressing, as a refreshing beverage)</div></li></ul><hr /><h2>Thai Chicken &amp; Cabbage Soup</h2><p><em>By Devon Byrne, FNTP and Sales &amp; Procurement Team at 4P Foods</em></p><p>The New Year is finally here, and many have vowed to turn over a new leaf in their diet! As a Functional Nutritional Therapy Practitioner, one of the biggest mistakes I see in clients is their thirst for a quick fix without first examining the primary foundation of their health: digestion. Digestion supports the function of the entire body. Approximately 70-80% of your immune system resides in your digestive tract. When digestion is impaired, it has a negative effect on all other systems and may be an underlying cause of numerous health issues.</p><p>One food to help repair your gut is cabbage. In fact, it is so great for you it created its own &ldquo;vitamin&rdquo;: Vitamin U. It is not a true vitamin, but a derivative of the essential amino acid: methionine.&nbsp; A doctor in the 1950s coined the term after discovering the nutrients in raw cabbage juice proved to repair peptic ulcers (U for ulcer!) and cells in the gut lining. Ready to fall in love with cabbage this season? Try this recipe to kickstart your health goals!</p><h3>Ingredients</h3><ul><li>1 pkg Farmer Focus Boneless Skinless Chicken Breast</li><li>1 quart chicken bone broth&nbsp;</li><li>1 leek, sliced</li><li>2 carrots, cut into 1 in. pieces</li><li>1 green cabbage, sliced into 1 in pieces (Napa Cabbage &amp; Bok Choy are suitable substitutes)&nbsp;</li><li>2 tsp ginger&nbsp;</li><li>1 tsp crushed red pepper&nbsp;</li><li>2 cloves minced garlic&nbsp;</li><li>1 tsp sea salt&nbsp;</li><li>Thai chili sauce (optional, to top)</li><li>Egg noodles (optional)</li></ul><h3><strong>DIRECTIONS</strong></h3><ol><li>Place chicken breasts and broth into a stockpot or Dutch oven. Bring to a boil and let simmer for about 15-20 minutes, or until chicken is cooked through. Remove the chicken from the broth and set aside to cool.&nbsp;</li><li>Put the leeks, carrots, garlic, and spices into the pot <em>uncovered</em> and simmer for 10 minutes, or until tender.&nbsp;</li><li>Shred the cooled chicken into bite sized pieces and return it to the pot. Add the cabbage and noodles (optional) and cook another 5 minutes. The soup should be thick like a stew.</li><li>Serve and flavor with Thai chili sauce!</li></ol><h3><em><strong>About the cook:</strong></em></h3><p><em>Devon wears many hats at 4P Foods, including sales and operations for 4P&rsquo;s sister brand, Shenandoah Produce, 4P wholesale account manager, and local produce buyer. Devon is also the founder of </em><a href="http://www.nativewisenutrition.com"><em>Nativewise Nutrition</em></a><em>, a nutritional therapy counseling service in Charlottesville, VA. She works with clients to uncover the root cause of their symptoms by incorporating functional nutrition, traditional diets, farm-fresh foods, and mindful lifestyle habits.</em></p><hr /><h2><strong>Pumpkin Spice Pasta&nbsp;</strong></h2><div><em>By Mike, 4P Foodies Recipe Contest Winner</em></div><div>&nbsp;</div><div>The holiday season is such a fun time filled with love, laughter, and holiday cheer. Many of us hold tight to our families' holiday traditions, especially when it comes to food. In December we asked you to share your ultimate cozy comfort food or best holiday-inspired dish. The winner of December's 4P Foodies recipe contest is the hearty and flavorful <em>Pumpkin Spice Pasta</em> by 4P member, Mike K. from Washington, D.C.&nbsp;</div><div>&nbsp;</div><h3><strong>Ingredients</strong></h3><ul><li>Virginia Bison Co. Bison Bourbon Fennel Sausage (or mild/sweet sausage of your choice)</li><li>White onion</li><li>Cooking oil</li><li>Pasta of your choice</li><li>Salt&nbsp;</li><li>8 oz (half a can) of pureed&nbsp;</li><li>8 oz Milk&nbsp;</li><li>Ground nutmeg</li><li>Ground ground clove</li><li>Ground cinnamon</li><li>ground ginger</li><li>Ground onion powder</li><li>&nbsp;Garlic powder&nbsp;</li><li>Ground Gochugaru</li><li>Asparagus</li><li>Grated parmigiano reggiano&nbsp;</li><li>Toasted nuts (for garnish)</li></ul><div>&nbsp;</div><h3><strong>Directions</strong></h3><p>Start some generously salted water boiling in a pot. Saut&eacute; 0.5-0.75 lb of loose mild or sweet sausage of your choice and about a third of a white onion (roughly chopped) until the onion is soft and meat is cooked or browned to your liking. Remove from the pan and discard excess oil. I used bison bourbon fennel sausage. In an empty pan, add asparagus cut into 1.5" segments, along with oil if necessary. Saut&eacute; until finished and remove from the pan. Meanwhile, add a pasta of your choice to the water and continue to boil. Short pasta (e.g. ziti) works best, but any will do. Boil until done. Put about 8 oz (half a can) of pureed to the pan, now on medium. Once warm, add about 8 oz milk (I used whole milk) and stir until mixed. Bring to a simmer. Add your pumpkin spices to taste. I used freshly ground nutmeg, ground clove, cinnamon, and ginger, along with salt, onion powder, garlic powder and gochugaru. Continue simmering until desired sauce thickness is achieved. Remember, it will tighten as it cools. Once sauce is done, add sausage mixture, asparagus, grated parmigiano reggiano, and pasta, and toss until homogeneous. Spoon into a wide bowl and sprinkle with roughly chopped toasted hazelnuts or pistachios. Enjoy!</p></div>
