---
layout: post
title: "4P Foods Welcomes Former Lidl US COO Louisa Hart  as Its New Chief Operating Officer: 15-year international grocery store operator brings new perspective and expertise to 4P Foods. \_"
date: 2022-08-16 10:00:00
author:
excerpt:
featured_image: /uploads/4pfoods-web-images-1900x1000.png
buttons:
assets:
tags:
  - 4P Foods
  - Food System
  - Local Food
  - Regenerative Food Systems
published: true
---
<div class="editable"><p class="AlignCenter"><strong>WARRENTON, Va. -</strong> 4P Foods is proud to announce Louisa Hart as its new Chief Operating Officer (COO), where she will be responsible for optimizing warehouse operations, managing distribution and logistics, integrating procurement and sales strategies, and establishing new aggregation and distribution partnerships to expand 4P Foods reach and impact across the Mid-Atlantic.&nbsp;</p><p>Louisa began her career in the food and grocery industry 15 years ago when she applied for a graduate scheme with international grocery store chain Lidl. She worked her way up from store manager for Lidl UK to COO for Lidl US. Louisa brings more than&nbsp; a decade of operational experience at one of the world&rsquo;s largest grocery store chains to help further 4P Foods&rsquo; mission to build a regional, regenerative, and equitable food system in the Mid-Atlantic.</p><p>&ldquo;Food is a must for everyone on this planet we live on. I believe that everyone deserves the right to have access to good quality food, and when I saw 4P Foods&rsquo; mission it was like a dream come true for me,&rdquo; says Louisa Hart, Chief Operating Officer,&nbsp; 4P Foods.</p><p>4P Foods mission is to connect all people and communities to regional farmers and responsibly sourced food. Their purpose is to positively impact people, planet, and prosperity through a more equitable food system. Each day, 4P Foods gets closer to the kind of food system farmers thrive in, soil is regeneratively cared for, animals are treated humanely, and all communities have equitable access to healthy food.</p><p>&ldquo;Scaling a mission-based company with a vision this large is no easy feat,&rdquo; says Tom McDougall, CEO &amp; Founder, 4P Foods. &ldquo;We knew we needed a world class COO to help us in this next phase of our growth. Adding Louisa to our leadership team has been a miracle in the making. We are grateful to add her experience and perspective to 4P Foods.&rdquo;</p><p>&ldquo;Working with a company that truly believes in their people is super motivating and exciting,&rdquo; says Louisa.&nbsp; &ldquo;4P Foods has a great and exhilarating future ahead.&rdquo;</p><p>Since launching in 2014, 4P Foods has connected 600 producers with 12,000 customers and 250 wholesale buyers. With Louisa as COO, 4P Foods will continue to grow its operations and mission by nurturing partnerships with other food hubs along the East Coast, building relationships that support Mid-Atlantic farmers, and bringing fresh, high-quality produce, meat, dairy, and pantry items to consumers.&nbsp;</p><div><strong># # #&nbsp;</strong></div><div><strong>ABOUT 4P Foods</strong></div><p>At 4P Foods, we are real people, working with real food. We love to be in the dirt, connect with farmers and eaters, and get nutritious food to people who need it most. Nothing is complicated about what we do and we want to keep it that way. Tom McDougall&rsquo;s idea to create a better food system for all took root in 2014. After witnessing the damages of the existing industrial food system, he set out to create a regenerative, equitable, and accessible option to the industrial food system. 4P Foods connects 600 producers of purpose-fueled food that&rsquo;s better for the prosperity of our planet and people to 12,000 customers and 250 wholesale buyers in Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, and Washington D.C.</p></div>