---
layout: post
title: 5 Summer Melons You Need To Know
date: 2024-07-12 12:30:00
author: 4P Foods
excerpt: >-
  4P Foods sources melons from Mid-Atlantic growers. This means we have fresh
  melons that were allowed to ripen on the vine producing deep flavor and
  wonderful nutrition.
featured_image: /uploads/summer-melon-blog.png
buttons:
assets:
published: true
---
<div class="editable"><p>Melons can be a dessert, a snack, breakfast, or the perfect addition to a picnic. They are so versatile that the average American consumes about 24 pounds of melon each year. In fact, the U.S. is one of the leading consumers of melons.</p><p>4P Foods sources melons from Mid-Atlantic growers. This means we have fresh melons that were allowed to ripen on the vine producing deep flavor and wonderful nutrition. But, this also means that melon season is short! Here are the five summer melons you need to know about before the season ends.</p><h1>Watermelon</h1><p>Because it is 92% water, watermelon is a great snack to keep you hydrated on hot summer days. This fruit is also packed with Vitamin C. One cup of fresh watermelon provides you with 21% of your daily recommended Vitamin C. It also contains significant amounts of antioxidants, which is why the flesh is bright pink.</p><p>Classic green stripes on the outside with bright pink on the inside, the watermelon is hard to miss when it’s on the table. You can simply eat watermelon by itself, add a dash of salt for a sweet and salty bite, or try our sweet and spicy <a href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/simple-watermelon-jalapeno-salad-recipe/">Watermelon Jalapeno Salad recipe</a>.</p><h1>Yellow Doll Watermelon</h1><p>It’s like a slice of summer sunshine! This melon looks like a classic watermelon on the outside with sunny, yellow flesh on the inside. These melons were first cultivated in Africa 5,000 years ago. The yellow color of the flesh actually comes from the antioxidant beta-carotene.</p><p>Yellow Doll Watermelons are smaller in size and mature early in the season. They have a sweet honey-like flavor and juicy texture. Use a Yellow Doll Watermelon just like you would a classic watermelon.</p><h1>Canary Melon</h1><p>Sweet and tangy! Canary melons are yellow on the outside with inner flesh that could be pale green to white. They are great for salads, sorbets, smoothies, or just sliced. Canary melons have a similar flavor profile to a honeydew melon, but they are a bit tangier. The rind is waxy and the flesh of the melon has a similar texture to a pear.</p><h1>Cantaloupe</h1><p>Also known as a rockmelon, spanspek, or sweet melon, a cantaloupe has a textured rind and sweet orange flesh on the inside. The orange color of the flesh comes from the antioxidant beta-carotene. Cantaloupe also has good amounts of vitamin C and vitamin A to support your eyes, skin, and immune health.</p><p>A lot like watermelon, cantaloupe tastes great with a sprinkle of salt. You can add this melon to salads or just cube it and eat it as a side of fruit.</p><h1>Honeydew Melon</h1><p>Not the most popular melon on the fruit tray, we know, but that wasn’t always the case. Ancient Egyptians regarded the honeydew melon as sacred and the crop was only served to the elite classes. So, maybe we should give this green melon another try?</p><p>Honeydew melons are rich in vitamin C and B vitamins. The green flesh has a mild sweet flavor that is refreshing on a hot summer day. This melon also has an earthy taste that makes it a great addition to a savory salad.</p>Need a recipe for your next barbeque? Try our <a href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/quick-summer-melon-salad-side-dish-recipe/">Quick Summer Melon Salad</a>.</div>