---
layout: post
title: 8 Sandwiches to Make with Regenerative and Pasture-Raised Products
date: 2025-01-09 11:30:00
author: 4P Foods
excerpt: >-
  We now have locally baked bread available in the 4P Foods shop! To celebrate
  having bread from local bakeries, we are creating a list of tasty sandwiches
  made using regenerative, locally sourced,  and pasture-raised products. 
featured_image: /uploads/making-sandwiches-with-regenerative-and-pasture-raised-products-1.png
buttons:
assets:
published: true
---
<div class="editable"><p>We now have locally baked bread available in the 4P Foods shop! To celebrate having bread from local bakeries, we are creating a list of tasty sandwiches made using regenerative, locally sourced,&nbsp; and pasture-raised products.&nbsp;</p><h1><strong>Pasture-Raised Turkey and Avocado Sandwich</strong></h1><p>This sandwich features layers of flavor and texture. Start with tender and juicy <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/product/oven-baked-turkey-breast-sliced-garrett-valley">pasture-raised sliced turkey</a> from Garrett Valley Farm, then add a creamy and smooth element with ripe slices of avocado spread generously on the bread. The combination of these ingredients creates a delicious blend of flavors. Whether it's for a quick lunch or a satisfying dinner, the Pasture-Raised Turkey and Avocado Sandwich is sure to be a hit.</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/quick-turkey-and-avocado-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Regenerative Cheese and Pasture-Raised Ham Sandwich</strong></h1><p>Get ready to treat your taste buds through a phenomenal sandwich experience with this hot ham and cheese. This sandwich uses <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/summary.php?go=products&amp;search_substring=origin">ORIGIN Cheese</a>, which is regenerative and organic made from 100% A2 milk sourced exclusively from pasture-raised Guernsey cows. Pair it with some top-quality pasture-raised ham, and you've got a sandwich that's bursting with flavor and sustainability. It's a win-win for your palate and the planet.</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/quick-hot-ham-and-cheese-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Pasture-Raised Bacon, Lettuce, &amp; Tomato Sandwich</strong></h1><p>This isn’t your average BLT. The star of this sandwich is the pasture-raised bacon, known for its great flavor and quality. You’ll find that each bite is a perfect combo of smoky, savory bacon with the refreshing crunch of freshly grown lettuce, and a tangy sweetness from ripe tomatoes. It’s great for a quick lunch or satisfying snack.</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/pasture-raised-bacon-lettuce-tomato-sandwich-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Regenerative Organic Hummus, Lettuce, &amp; Tomato Sandwich</strong></h1><p>Treat yourself to an extraordinary sandwich experience as we bring together the incredible creaminess of <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/summary.php?go=products&amp;search_substring=hummus">Little Sesame Hummus </a>with the refreshing crunch of crisp lettuce and the burst of flavor from ripe tomatoes. Little Sesame hummus is handcrafted in small batches, their hummus radiates with sunny vibes and smoothness. Each batch is made from single-origin organic chickpeas and organic tahini, ensuring a richness of flavor. And the best part? Little Sesame Hummus is proudly made in DC.&nbsp;</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/organic-hummus-lettuce-tomato-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Regenerative Salmon Salad Sandwich</strong></h1><p>Indulge in a reel good meal that not only satisfies your taste buds but also supports sustainability. This easy-to-make salmon salad sandwich recipe is incredibly versatile and serves four, making it an ideal choice for meal prep lunches or light dinners. The best part is that you have the option to use <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/product/sockeye-salmon-lemon-pepper-6oz-patag">cooked canned salmon</a> from Patagonia Provisions, ensuring a purpose-fueled dish that is better for both our planet and people. If preferred, you can also cook a salmon filet yourself for an extra touch of freshness.</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/easy-salmon-salad-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Regenerative Grilled Three Cheese Sandwich</strong></h1><p>This Regenerative Grilled Three-Cheese Sandwich is a true delight! It's a quick and delicious recipe that will leave you wanting more. The bread is perfectly toasted until crispy, with a buttery outer layer. Inside, the three cheeses melt together to create a wonderfully gooey center that offers that satisfying 'pull' with every bite. We recommend using <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/summary.php?go=products&amp;search_substring=origin">ORIGIN</a> smoked cheddar, mozzarella, and chile jack cheeses.</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/regenerative-grilled-three-cheese-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Organic Chicken Breast Sandwich</strong></h1><p>To make this delectable Organic Chicken Breast Sandwich, start by marinating the 100% <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/product/chicken-breast-organic-boneless-skinless-svo">Organic and Certified Humane chicken breast</a> sourced from Farmer Focus in a combination of your favorite herbs and spices for maximum flavor. Next, grill the chicken until it is perfectly cooked and juicy. While the chicken is grilling, toast your choice of bread to perfection. Once the chicken is ready, assemble the sandwich by layering fresh lettuce, sliced tomatoes, and avocado. If you’d like to kick the sandwich up a notch, add a couple of slices of crispy bacon!</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/easy-organic-chicken-breast-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p><h1><strong>Locally Roasted Peanut Butter and Local Jam Sandwich</strong></h1><p>Enjoy this treat made with local ingredients! Spread a generous layer of rich and creamy <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/product/crunchy-peanut-butter">Big Spoon Roasters peanut butter</a>, made from locally roasted peanuts, onto your choice of bread. Then, top it off with sweet and tangy <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://shop.4pfoods.com/product/jam-concord-grape">Concord Grape Jam</a> sourced locally for a burst of fruity goodness. Each bite will be a blend of nutty and fruity notes, creating a sandwich that is both comforting and satisfying.</p><p><a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://4pfoods.com/recipes/locally-roasted-peanut-butter-and-local-jam-sandwich-lunch-recipe/">Get the recipe»</a></p></div>